>> Welcome, everyone, to the Leopard Server Overview.
So those of you who were here in the last session, you heard
about some of the great new features in Leopard Server.
And we're going to go into a lot more depth in this
session, and also we've got some great demos for you.
So as some of you heard, Leopard Server is built on
a 64-bit sold foundation; Unix foundation of Leopard.
We have a lot of open source services that are
integrated together and we've made them very easy to use
with the management applications of Leopard Server.
And we're got some great new applications,
like the podcast producer,
the iCal server, and the Apple wiki.
So to start off, we're going to go into detail about
the OS foundations and some of the Core services.
I would like to welcome to the
stage Kazu Yanagihara
senior engineering manager from the Mac OS Server team.
( Applause )
>> Welcome to network server.
So we have lots of good stuff.
So I hope you'll stick around.
Let's start with this.
So -- we have tons of changes in Leopard.
Let's see.
Foundation.
So if you look at about 18 months ago, or past
18 months, we have tons of changes in hardware,
we started with Intel transition
and then moved to 64-bit Intel.
And most recently moved to the multi-Core systems.
It was tons of work for the OS engineers, but it was also
a great opportunity to make key changes within the OS.
And we did take the opportunity.
So what I want to do is go over some of those
changes and see how that helps the server platform.
One of the key focuses is multicore capability.
So to start with, we have a brand new scheduler, smart cache
and CPU management, which means you can now on the threads,
basically bounce around between
different cores and blow away the CPU cache.
We also have TCP input processing distributed
across multiple cores.
Which means that if you have a server that's under load.
It can respond much better.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> The use of global locks are
also needed for most system costs.
Which means that you can now execute a bunch of different
stuff in parallel, and really take advantage
of those extra cores, which in general
brings up the whole server performance.
And the list goes on and on and on.
If you look at general enhancements,
we now have support for send file.
Which means we can move the bit from fast
system to networking much more efficiently.
We have a spot for the POSIX spawn which has much
lower overhead when you launch an application.
So it's great for things like Apache
and Samba (assumed spelling).
Deployments of our 10GB Internet (Inaudible) more
than doubled, and close to tripled since Tiger's server.
So that is a great accomplishment.
And so on.
And all these changes really paid off.
So you've seen in previous presentation, our
scalability story is working really, really good.
And in general, the performance
of different services as well.
Here, the e-mail server is using internal bench mark.
This measures the number of messages the server can send
and receive, (Inaudible) server and latency timeframe.
So we are really happen with the foundation
right now and the progress we have made.
And we still have a few months
to tweak and optimize this OS.
So just a quick update on the foundation.
But I want to move up to a level higher to services and talk
about some of the great stuff that is in Leopard Server.
As Greg mentioned earlier, a lot of our services are
based on open source standards and open source projects.
And we have lots and lots and lots of services.
I didn't even get to list everything here.
So what I'm going do today is spend 10
or 15 minutes on each of these services
and go over the key features -- just kidding.
We don't have time for that.
( Laughter )
>> So the point is we have a lot of services.
So what we're really going to do is spend maybe
10 minutes to talk about 4 or 5 key features
of Leopard Server within different server market context.
And let's start with I top server
information (assumed spelling).
So this is a feature where you can connect
the attach server to another attach server.
And why would you want to do that?
An example.
A small business environment.
So let's think about company network
with my network server there.
It works great.
People can chat in a secure fashion.
Have all this new great features of Leopard.
But for -- if you work with another company and if
you have a chat with employees from that company,
you can feather these two servers,
and with that the employees
from both companies can now chat
freely across the public Internet.
You can even make a secure, and have
every single message encrypted as well.
And you can do all of this without
any changes to the client's side.
You don't have to add any additional
accounts or connect an additional server.
It just works.
And you can also feather it into a server in
the sky, such as Google Talk if you want to.
So employees can talk to their friends and
family all day long, instead of doing their work.
( Laughter )
>> So -- and we made this one really easy to use.
So if you have basic server administration,
as just a single click.
Or if you want to fine-tune the options
you can do so in Advanced Panel.
So that's iChat Server Federation.
Next, timing back up server.
So you've been hearing great things about this new feature.
So let's see how it works in the server environment.
Let's see if you have a 1,000 employee company.
And you want everybody to backup their data.
You could buy 1,000 hard drives and distribute everybody
and tells them this is how you are to back it up.
And that may work.
But like herding cats probably it would not work.
So with Leopard Server what you
can do is push the preferences
for the Time Machine from the center of open directory.
And then have all the clients back
up to a set of centralized servers.
That way the IT department has a much better
control over the process of backing things up.
And of course, with Xsan run out of
space just keep throwing hardware at it,
and Xsan can automatically expand the volume for you.
And as your company grows you can
keep adding server hardware as well.
So -- and here is the workgroup manager GUI for
configuring Time Machine backup options.
So that's Time Machine.
Next, Spotlight server.
Such -- Steve mentioned and we now have the ability
to search multiple volumes just
like local volumes transparently.
So if you work in a publishing work group you can
do searchs on a server corroborating with others.
And you can use all the features of Leopard,
such as QuickLook, or the cover flow.
Everything.
It just works automatically.
Or you can also use existing features
like smart folders,
so it can interpret this whole process
into your work flow for your group.
And on the server side, there is
no configuration there also.
Just out of the box, every single shipment is
automatically indexed and able to be searchs.
In this bonus, you also have a patch module that
let's you do search remotely from a Web page.
So if anybody wants to come up with Spotlight front end
for iPhone there's an opportunity right there.
Next up is RADIUS Server.
So this is the best kept secret of Leopard Server.
So anyway, this feature's great if you're
managing lots of airport base stations.
And here's how it works.
Let's look at the university as an example.
So a lot of company -- universities -- have open network
where anybody can just walk up and join the network.
But I just want to protect the network and require
authentication.
With RADIUS feature what you can
do is point all the base stations
to the authorzing Open Directory server who's RADIUS
enabled.
So when students go up to the base station to
or they need to authenticate, goes to Open
Directory server and they get an access.
The same password that they use for the mail application
when (Inaudible) out of the institutional level.
And this is based on the open soucre software called
Free Radius.
And we even added Setup Assistant.
So all you have to do is go through four different panels
of this assistant and you can configure the whole network.
We also made a change to the Server Admin.
So now from within a Server Admin you can
browse and add different base stations.
And the Server Admin knows to authorize on
directory talk to the base station and configure it
to use radios and point to the right directive server.
So if you are managing a wireless network it's
something that you want to take a look at.
And the last thing it the Web platform.
So we have clearly set up tools that
you can use for the Web development.
We, of course, have all the basic stuff, such as Apache,
MySQL, PHP, all integrated, and it's all now 64-bit.
And as Greg mentioned earlier, we
also have Ruby on Rails now as well
as over 20 gems prebundled and all configured.
So that should make life a lot easier for a lot of people.
And of course have other familiar technologies, like the
Perl, Tom Cat, WebObjects, (Inaudible) as well.
And again, most of these components are 64-bit now.
So, you have -- we have services for everyone from small
businesses to corporations to higher educational sites.
And just like desktop site, there is no standard
edition or advanced edition or small business edition.
All of these services are in a single package
of Mac OS X Server that you can buy
and then you get to pick which services you want to use.
So that's services.
Now let's move on to other administration.
So one of the key goals of Leopard Server
was to make it super-easy for people
to deploy and manage all these great services.
And what we did was we kind of stepped
back and asked ourselves the questions.
So for our Admins, and how are they using --
what context are they using our server and
what are the issues that they are having.
And we came up with three different
scenarios under which servers are being used.
And of course, corresponding Admin types.
The first one was for small businesses.
So this is a place where there
is no IT staff that's educated.
So whoever happens to know the most about the
computer, the computer guy needs to be at Admin.
And what he or she does is go out and buy some books.
( Laughter )
>> And try best to set up server and
configure all the client's user server.
Kind of scary.
And -- but all they want to do is just set up
all the basic services without much tweaking.
Just the basic settings.
And once it's configured, they will hardly
ever touch on the unless they need to add new users
or do something unless they absolutely have to.
So the first challenge, really,
was to help out these people.
The next step was department of service,
within institutions and corporations.
So a lot of people do want to deploy their servers
independent of what's provided by the IT staff.
For example, you might have the departmental web
site, or the HR department may have their own file server
to keep confidential information and so on.
And typically, just configure maybe
one specific service, or maybe two.
Not a whole bunch of different stuff.
But one thing they do want to do is they want to integrate
with the direct infrastructure that's provided
by the institution or the corporation.
So you have the single user password and
you have to manage separate user accounts.
But it's often difficult to do that for a lot of people.
So typically what ends up happening is
either they create separate users and groups,
try to manage it, an then quickly become out dated.
Or they call the IT staff for help and they have to come out
and set up the server for them, set up the clients for them,
bind them to the server, introductory server and so on.
So extra work that gets created for the IT staff.
So for these people our goal was to really come
up -- again -- real easy way to deploy the server,
but integrate it into the infrastructure that's
provided by the corporation or institution.
And we off load the extra work from the IT staff.
Then the third one is just basically
the rest of administrators out there.
We want to advance people who want to specialize
deployment, or just want to use advanced tools.
Probably a lot of people in this
audience fall into this category.
So these are people who know what they are
talking about, and they know what they are doing.
They know what IPP stands for; what IPFW stands for.
And they read the writing books
for fun before they go to bed --
( Laughter )
>> -- and other stuff.
And so we've been talking most directly and
indirectly, quite a lot of different feed back.
And we've got a lot of good ones.
But in particular, a lot of them on it have the
ability to better manage a large number of servers.
The tools we have today is not really scaleable.
So that's one of the biggest feed back.
So we took all these ideas and feed back and went off and
did some engineering work and came up with a few things.
The first thing we did was stream line the server system.
The server set up application.
So now when you launch it, the first thing it's going
to ask you is to pick one of the three concentrations,
either standard, work group, or advanced, which
maps to those scenarios that we talked about.
And then if you pick standard we
will try to do everything for you.
All right.
So you don't have to set up anything.
For example, if you have a configuration like this and
it's an Airport base station router, we talk to it directly
and then all configure not port forwarding, so
things like iChat Server Federation or mail server,
or anything that goes out to the Internet
just works, without any further configuration.
( Applause )
>> And it is all in Server.
All in one server configuration that's preconfigured
and enabling all the key productivity
and corroboration services.
And we will include the VPN server, so even the small
business employees can work even after they go home.
( Applause )
>> Next, worker configuration.
So if you pick this configuration it's
really for the department servers.
Here's an example.
At Alpo (assumed spelling), we
have centralized director server
and different departments have all
their servers managed by themselves.
And this one really cool feature called easy Kerberos.
What this does is if you select worker configuration, and
if that open directory server is also a Leopard Server,
we do some magic underneath it, and we automatically
Kerberize all the services on that departmental server.
And without any IT involvement in this at all,
which means anybody in the department can easily
manage, deploy these servers and manage it.
And also there's a benefit to the clients, which
is if all this department's servers are pointing
to the service directory, all the clients can
take advantage of single signing programs.
So they won't have all different passwords
for different departmental servers.
So that's some of the cool things we did here.
And here are the services that's
enabled for the worker configuration.
Now, once the server's set up, you need to manage it.
Adding new users, maybe tweaking the
Spam filtering, sensitivity, and so on.
So we looked at and see how can we make
work book manager and server much easier
to use without penalizing advanced people.
And we reached the conclusion that we cannot.
So what we did was we created a brand
new application that's really optimized
for the basic usage for those novice Admins.
And we're going to demo this in a little bit, so
I won't go into too much detail.
We also have this brand new widget, so anyone on the
Internet you can have instant access of the status
to the server, just in, check it, and out.
( Applause )
and if you do want to do some minor tweaking or minor --
detailed tweaking of certain preferences or enabling of
additional services, the advanced tool select Server Admin
and work group managers are available for
both standard and work group configurations.
It's hidden; but it's there.
And we don't prevent you from using it.
But we do bring down the sheet saying,
hey, do you know what you're doing?
( Laughter )
>> All right.
So another cool feature that we've
implemented is called automatic client set up.
So -- so if you have a standard work
group server, the client users don't have
to do any manual configuration of the applications.
So you don't have to go into the Mail app
and go to the preferences and type
in your server name or authentication type.
Same thing for the iChat
iCal -- all of those.
It just automatically happens.
So what I'd like to do now is invite Jeff Michaud
the manager of server admitting,
and Mike Thole, one of the
engineers to the stage and give us a demo.
But before we start that, I have to give you a warning.
About three hours ago the network went down on that
server machine, and somehow hosed the boot for you.
But luckily we have a back up volume, so we
booted it, and did some quick configuration
and did some stuff, and it looks like it's working.
So it's a 50, 50 chance but --P which says a lot.
( Applause )
>> Thanks a lot.
Hey folks.
So Mike and I are here
So I manage the Admin HI team here at Apple.
For Mac OS X Server.
Mike is an engineer on the team.
And for the purpose of this demo we're
playing the roles of two grad students
at a fictitious school called Apple University.
And we're in the biology department.
I have just gotten permission from
IT to set up a work group server.
And it just requires a static IP address.
That's pretty much it.
Everything else I can do myself.
And Mike is here and he's going to
join his computer up to the network.
So let's see how that looks.
>> So like Jeff said, I am Mike Thole, and I am
playing a biology student at our fictional university.
I just got my shiny new department computer today and I'm
going to try to set it up using our university services.
So you all know how you would do that.
You would open Mail.app and
go through the set up assistant.
Enter your e-mail address, probably enter some more
obscure things, like your SMTP host, your port, et cetera.
If I was going set up iChat to join the iChat
server, we would go through its set up assistant.
I am a biologist, not a computer nerd.
I don't know which account I would pick here.
I don't even know what a Jabber I.D. is.
And I would go through of the same process, like
bind for the directory, set up iCal, et cetera.
This seems like a big headache for me.
I am busy with lots of other things, so it
seems like we should be able to make it simpler.
>> So, I think we can, with this new server we set up.
It's got a bunch of great features for collaboration.
For example, I guess you probably do some
work with others around the department?
>> Right. So I collaborate with
three or four other researchers,
and it would be great if we had a few things.
I would really like to see some way to schedule
meetings on the Internet for group work.
Some way to collaborate on line, and a way to share
files, because we have a lot of research data.
>> Yep, so this server has all that.
It's got a wiki.
A team wiki can set that up.
It's got a shared calendar, it's got file sharing, and it's
real easy to set up, so I can get you going now if you want?
>> Yeah. Show me how it works.
>> So as Kazu mentioned,
we've got this new app called server preferences.
Probably looks a little bit familiar to people.
Looks a bit like System Preferences.
It's got account information up here.
I can either create accounts right on the server or I
can import accounts from the institutional directory.
And in here it's got services, it's not
-- controls for just the basic stuff
that I care about as someone who's a non-ad man.
Right. So if there's a problem with the server, you
know, people like you are going to be around to come
and look at the server and figure out what's
really going on using more advanced tools.
And also down at the bottom here I've got
some basic status information, such as graphs.
You know, it's been sitting here idle for a couple
hours, so you can just see that the server's healthy.
So I am going go ahead and I'm going
create an account for Mike here.
>> Spell my name right.
>> If I can type.
And -- I will -- set your password to be test, for now.
So he's created -- and now when he -- he's
going to get a welcome e-mail from the server
that explains all the services that it provides.
And here I'll go into group.
So to set up the shared services like the wiki
-- the way to do that is to set up a group.
And so I'm going to create a group for Mike.
And I think you're in the research group, Mike?
>> That's right.
>> So we'll go ahead and create that group.
And we'll edit the membership.
And I think you'll work with some familiar faces here.
Forest, Jason, Shell.
Of course, you, and Nathan.
Is that right?
>> That's right.
>> Looks good.
So that's your group.
So now you can see, we've got a new
wiki here called the research wiki.
And we've got some shared set ups.
So it looks like we've pretty much ready to go.
>> So, we've already got a lot of biology data.
Is there any way we can use this server to share that to us?
>> Yep. No problem.
So you can just go into Finder here and find your data.
And this looks like some interesting stuff going to here.
So we'll -- is this the one you're interested in
>> Yeah. That's right.
The research.
>> So we can just drag that over there.
And we'll close that.
( Applause )
>> And we can just set permission for that group.
Does that work for you?
>> That would be great.
But can we also add Eric Firestone to that list?
I'd like him to be able to access
one of those folders in there.
>> No problem.
I know Eric.
Good guy. So there you go.
And I think we're ready to go.
So why don't we flip over to your machine and --
>> I'll log back in.
Is there anything I need to do to
start this configuration process?
>> Oh, well, I guess something's happening already.
>> So it looks like it has found the biology server, right?
>> Yep.
>> And it's providing me a few services.
I'm going to begin set up.
And it looks like you need to enter the user
name and password you just created for me.
And my own password on this machine.
And it authenticates to the server.
And now it's asking if I want to
auto configure my applications.
That's exactly why I want to do this, to
save me all the hassle of doing this myself.
So I will do that.
And what's this about Time Machine?
Maybe I should have paid more attention
to Kazu's speech.
But I thought I had to have a FireWire
drive connected to use Time Machine?
>> No. One great feature of the server is that you can
configure Time Machine to backup to the server, which has,
you know, as much disc space as we want it to have.
And you don't have to be tethered to
a hard disk right on your desk there.
>> So let's do that.
That sounds great.
Okay. Now I just need to log out and log
back in for everything to take effect.
And -- we'll start off in Mail and
see if anything happened in there.
So, I've already got an e-mail account set up.
I didn't before.
( Applause )
>> And I have my first welcome
message explaining some basic steps,
showing me different services that the server provides.
One other thing I could do is it looks like
I can also e-mail people directly from here.
So it remembers their e-mail addresses, so I don't have to.
( Applause )
>> I have to see what else we have here.
A group wiki.
Let's check that out.
Log in. Cool!
So -- it's the research group wiki.
Nothing there since we just created it.
I'm sure we'll see more of that later in the session.
Let's see.
And I see there's a Mac OS Scientific
Computing State of the Union tomorrow at 2.
That sounds great.
So I will add it to my iCalendar.
And let's go check out iCal.
As you can see, it already has the biology server added.
And there's some assignments that I just created
using that cool data detector feature in Leopard.
And finally, let's check out Chat.
Well, I see I've got everybody in the
biology department already on my list.
And I see Jeff's on line.
So, say hey.
( Laughter and applause )
>> So anything else you want to show us, Jeff?
>> Yeah. So, we've got this new cool Dashboard
widget that Kazu mentioned, so it runs remotely.
So obviously, you can, you know, run through
the network, you can run it from anywhere.
See, the basic health of the server, again, disc space,
check basic services, make sure things are working okay.
And that's a widget.
That's the demo.
Back to you, Kazu.
( Applause )
>> Okay. What a relief.
( Laughter )
>> I have to -- after the fact
sacrifice to the demo God later
All right.
So if you pick another configuration,
the third one is advanced configuration.
And this is ready for the advanced
administrators who want to use advanced tools,
or who want to do some special deployments such as
mail across string or (Inaudible) across string,
deploying Xgrid, and Podcast Producer and so on.
And we did make a number of enhancements to
the tools that's used by those Admins as well.
For example, we have a tiered Admin in
both workgroup manager and Server Admin now.
The real one that works.
And also we made a few additional
feature enhancements to Server Admin
so we can much more easily manage a large number of servers.
And we have a few assistants for configuring
some of the services that are more sophisticated also.
And lastly, we did redesign the
interface for the Server Admin.
And actually, we -- last year in the
session we showed a prototype of the design.
And some people after the session came up to
us and said, it looks great, it looks great.
And you can navigate much faster.
We love it.
Even more people came up to us and said,
oh, I don't know, I kind of don't like it.
Maybe like it.
I don't know.
This one guy actually came to me
and said I really, really hate it.
I'm going to come get you.
( Laughter )
>> So --
>> ( Laughter )
>> So we listened to people's feedback and I changed it.
So we have another design that I want to show it to you.
But I don't want to show it.
So I am going to have Jeff come up to the stage
again and give you the demo of Server Admin.
( Applause )
>> Thanks again.
So I'm just going to give a really
short demo of some of the productivity
and scaleable features that we've put into Server Admin.
We've put a lot into it.
There's a lot of service level stuff that
we just don't have time to go into today.
But I just want to show a new things to whet your
appetite and you can check it out on the seed.
So here I am pointed at my biology
server from the last demo.
We've got a nice new overview here.
Shows, you know, hardware, software,
services that are running and basic status.
And one thing we added that's pretty cool is we've added the
ability to save and restore preferences from Server Admin.
Preferences being, for example,
the server list that shows up.
And I've got to know if anyone can see, but there's a
rack over there with about ten excerpts or so in it.
So let's say I want to administer that.
So -- let's go in and find my deco wreck.
And there they are.
Boom. As Steve Jobs would say.
Oops. So I've got a nice list overview
here of all my servers.
I don't really know what they are, because, you know,
when I set this up I just typed in the IP addresses.
I can step through them here and see that
there's an OD server, a Web server --
looks like this is stuff for the podcast demo later.
So this looks pretty cool.
But I'd like a way to organize this.
So one thing I can do is I can create a group.
And let's say I want a group of my
-- oops -- it's not cooperating.
Let's create another group.
Of my OD servers.
And I think this was one of them.
And can drag that in.
And there's a replica.
So there I've got my utility servers.
That's kind of a pain.
And I don't want to manually create groups every time.
So we've got this other feature called Smart
Groups, which works like Smart Playlist in iTunes.
( Laugher and applause )
>> So what I can do with this is I can
look, for example, at the CPU usage, right?
And I can create a Smart Group that dynamically updates,
for example, with peg servers -- servers that are pegged.
In this case I just want to see
my -- for example, my X spreads.
So we'll create one called jeans.
There it is.
Looks like I've got three of them.
And there they are.
So a couple features from Server Admin.
There's a whole lot more.
Check it out in the seed.
And back to Kazu.
( Applause )
>> Okay. So that's the scoop on administration.
We have the three configuration options now backed
by a handful technology innovations
for people to deploy and manage servers.
So next, let's talk about Podcast Producer.
Some background information.
You look at it, the popularity of pod
casting is growing at a significant rate.
Today there are more than 3 billion downloads
of podcast episodes every week -- 3 billion.
And it's increasing.
And Apple is fully embracing this technology and
integrating into all different product lines.
For example, iTunes Music Store has it right there.
And it's one of the most popular destinations in the app.
And of course it's the essential component of
new initiatives, like iTunes U. And of course,
once you have a podcast downloaded to your
application, you can sync to the device of your choice.
So you can sync to your iPod and watch it on the go.
You can watch it on a big screen TV in your living room.
Or you can watch it in 18 days on your brand new iPhone.
Maybe -- if you start standing on line tonight.
So -- and which there are hundreds of millions of
copies of iTunes out there, and over 100 iPods,
people are really -- there's a demand on the client side.
And lots of large organizations are starting to
realize the power and attractiveness of podcasting.
It's a very effective and economical way to distribute
information like lectures or training materials.
A marching person was telling me that the military
personnel are interested in creating podcasts
for different schools, graduation,
high school, junior high and so on.
So the overseas personnel can actually
watch their kids graduating via podcasting.
So there are people ready to consume.
And then there's a demand there.
There's a desire to actually produce on the producer's side.
And there's one problem and that is we
do have some cool tools like Garage Band
and iWeb that let you create and publish podcast.
But these are all for individuals.
And we really don't have a tool that's
designed for the organizations out there.
And organizations need something
that's automated and scaleable.
So imagine Stanford University, they
probably have over 100 lectures a day.
Then you don't have the money to
create podcasts out of those lectures.
And of course it needs to be secure.
And it needs to be integrated into the
infrastructure, networking, directing, and so on.
And needs to be customizable, because
different people have different needs.
So there's a big hole right now, right there right now.
And then Podcast Producer's going to fill that hole.
So we have a brand new application called Pod Cast
Capture, which let's you remotely control camera.
You can start and stop and so on.
And when the recording is done, the file is
getting pushed up to the server automatically.
And the server, in turn, dispatches
it to the work flow engine.
And each work flow knows exactly what
processing to apply to that media file.
It may actually do according to
different file format or screen sizes.
It may append the copyright notice for the
organization, or do water marking and so on.
And each work flow knows how to or
where to actually publish to.
To iTunes U, or simply saving to the disc so
it can preview it before you make it public.
So it's a really complete intense application that
let's you capture, process, and deliver podcasts.
Now let's double-click on each one of those.
Capturing. The podcast Capture ships as part of Leopard
disc, the OS, so it's all installed and ready to go.
In the application utilties folder.
And it does more than just remotely controlling
cameras, such as screen scraping and a bunch of stuff,
which we are going to show in a demo in a few minutes.
And also all the functionality of applications are
actually implemented in a command line tool underneath it.
Which means that you can come up with your front
end by building on top of that command line tool.
( Applause )
>> And we will have a man page.
So when we have done installing actually, on the client
client side you can do the man P cast --
P-C-A-A-S-T -- and you can take a look at it.
We may change the name to something else before we
ship, but that's the name we have right now on the DVD.
So that's capturing.
Processing.
Oops. So we ship with 18 default work flows that are
useful out of the box, but we do expect most people to come
up with their own custom work flows that
meet the exact needs of their organization.
And at the core of the work flow engine is an
Xgrid cluster which means if you have lots
of podcast programming at the same time, generally
you can do so in parallel.
And one cool feature we added is integration with Quartz.
So with that you can actually use Quartz
Composer to compose different compositions.
And then you can apply that to different
media files that you actually captured.
Which we're going to demo that in a few minutes.
And this whole system is really scaleable.
So if you run out of the CPU horsepower
because you have too many podcasts,
add more excerpts to the -- to the Xgrid cluster.
And if you're running out of the disc space,
Xgrid knows how to expand the volume
dynamically so just buy more hardware.
So you can start with just a few machines, and
then as your needs grow you can keep adding stuff
to it until you have something like this.
( Laughter )
>> So, some great stuff for us
It's kind of funny.
When we talk to our sales people
and say listen and after we explain it.
And they start to realize the potential of
this technology they get really excited.
And when you get to the scalability portion with
all these hardware things the eyes start to shine
and you see dollar signs in there and all that stuff.
( Laughter )
>> Anyway -- delivery.
So our default 18 work flows knows to publish to
iTunes and iTunes U to sync to different devices.
You can also deliver to different services.
Blog server, QuickTime streaming server, or just dump it
to the Web folder so you can do Web downloading as well.
And it's also integrated with any mail system,
so you can send an e-mail notification
to users when the podcast is available.
So, nice formatted text with the
link to the podcast.
And of course you can just simply archive to a disk as well.
So it's a complete system.
And what I'm going to do now is invite two of
the engineers who are working on this project,
Kjell Bronder (assumed spelling) and
Nathan Spindel (assumed spelling).
And give us a demo.
( Applause )
>> Hi. I'm a professor.
>> And I'm a student.
>> I really love Podcast Producer,
because it makes it super-simple for me
to record my biology lectures and
share them with my students.
Let me show you.
So I'm walking over to my podium lecture machine,
and I click on Podcast Capture in the dock.
I clicked on Podcast Capture in the dock.
Here I type in my campus log in and password.
It's backed by Open Directory, and it's the
same password I use for my e-mail and wireless.
And I click connect.
And here's I am presented with four
different types of podcasts to make.
For now we'll click video, and I'll
come back to this pane in a little bit.
So here we chose which camera we want.
Today I'm lecturing in Mission, so let's choose Mission.
It's actually a camera connected to Mac Mini right here.
So now I'll click record, and it
gives me a timer count down.
And I'll begin.
Podcast Producer makes it really easy for
professors to create high quality video podcasts
of their lectures and share them with students.
Now we click pause.
And we have -- a little slip up.
And I'll click publish.
And here I choose the work flow to publish to.
These are already set up on my T guide (assumed spelling).
These are three bio classes that I teach.
So I'll type in the title.
Which is Rocket Fuel For Your Podcasts.
Podcasting, WWDC -- and I clicked done.
And at this point my podcast has been submitted.
I can walk away from the podium machine.
I have been automatically logged out.
In fact it's processing right now
on that Xserve grid over there.
So let me come back to the screen I showed you before.
I'll click new podcast.
And as I mentioned before, I was already logged out.
So these are the four types of podcasts
we can make with Podcast Capture.
The first is video.
As I showed before, we did a remote recording, but you can
also do local recordings from your built in iSight.
Second, is audio.
Which is audio only podcast for some of the lecture halls
at Apple University don't have video
facilities , but we can still do audio podcasts.
Third is screen.
Screen is really great.
It's a recording of this Mac's video -- this Mac's display.
So I can record a full scale Keynote
presentation with my voice over it.
( Applause )
>> And finally, File -- we already have
them a movie clip, maybe a TV spot or a clip I made
in an I movie I want to share with my students.
So now I'll turn it over to my student Kjell, who
will show you how to consume the podcast I create.
>> So as a student I really love Podcast Producer,
because it let's me watch my lectures really easily.
So as most of my other students, we
already have iTunes on all our Macs.
Most of us have iPod, and I even have an Apple TV in
my dorm room, so I can watch my lectures from my room.
And for sure, when that new iPhone comes out, I will
be watching my lectures from all over campus with it.
( Laughter )
>> So I've got this biology lecture
coming up next week -- final -- sorry.
And I want to prepare for it.
And we went over something this week in this
week's lecture that I want to watch again.
So how do I get that podcast.
I'll show you in Mail.
I got a new episode notification here.
So let's click on that.
So I have my new e-mail, Rocket Fuel For Your Podcast.
And it has a little link here saying
that I can get it in iTunes.
So let me click on iTunes U. So this will bring you straight
to iTunes U. And here I can see all my different classes.
So the class that I need to prep for biology 105, Big Cats.
So let me click on that.
And as you can see here, I have all the
content that has been posted for that class.
I am not subscribed to this podcast, so
I am going to click Subscribe up here.
And you'll see it shows up in downloads.
And it should show up in -- if it's done downloading
it will show up here in my podcast library.
Let me click here.
So now I don't have to up load -- I don't have
to worry about going to iTunes U any more.
Each time a new episode becomes
available I will automatically get it.
So let's take a look at this podcast.
>> Podcast Producer makes it really easy for
professors to make high quality video podcasts
of their lectures and share them with students.
( Applause )
>> There you go.
So you saw the video quality and the
production quality is pretty high.
I've got this intro video with these nice transitions
and the outro had the title that was overlaid.
And I got the water mark.
That's all done using Quartz Composer.
So we have this little other example to show you
some crazy ideas you can use -- you can do --
with Quartz Composer and the power of Quartz Composer.
So let me get that video for you.
>> So here we go.
Let's play it back --
( Multiple voices speaking )
>> So you'll see here that we can do some crazy effects that
you might not -- it's really fun, and -- just a lot of fun.
But there's a lot more practical things
that you can actually do with it.
So here we have a little old-style effect.
We have the sepia effect.
And we can even do some focus corrections.
So here, since this was in focus, we blurred it to show you.
We can do some color correction.
We can even do some exposure correction, or do like a glow
effect, if you guys are familiar with the Tiki bar podcast.
And that's all done post processing --
( Applause )
>> So that's how easy it is for us to consume as a student.
So just to wrap it up, I really think that Pocket Producer
is really awesome, both for professors and students.
Because for professors, it makes it really, really easy
for them to create high quality podcasts of their lectures.
And for students, it's really easy to consume because
they already know how to use iTunes and their iPods.
So, back to you Kazu.
( Applause )
>> Now let's quickly talk about the opportunities here.
And there are a lot.
So if you look at it, when we captured the movie
what we do is actually create the file and send it
up to the server via P Cast Tool,
which means there's nothing
that prevents the application from doing the same thing.
From P Cast Tool you can do things like get list of work
force that's available or a bunch of different things.
So you've got a lot of flexibility there.
In fact, we worked with the QuickTime team.
So now in Leopard, if you go to the QuickTime Player,
there's an option to publish to the Podcast Producer
and be intreated in, like, a couple days.
Another opportunity there is the custom work flows
and tools, and that's probably the biggest area.
So this is just simply something
that the expert can execute.
So you can easily come up with a bunch
of different stuff; something creative.
You may want, for example, to take the
audio track and do the voice recognition,
and then do the captioning, or whatever you want to do.
And of course you can send it to any
destination you want by writing custom work flows
so you may want integrate into a system or your own platform.
There are a lot of opportunities here.
And the one thing I should point out is that although this
is called Podcast Producer, and primarily for Podcasting,
or podcast producing, this really
has nothing to do with podcasting.
It's a general work flow engine that's
highly scaleable, secure, and customizable.
So if you want you can just pass in
a PDF file and do color separation,
or do DNA sequencing or OCR or anything.
So be great if you guys can basically take this technology
and come up with some creative ideas on top of this.
So this is a ten minutes summary of Podcast Producer,
it's a complete engine solution,
it's highly scaleable and it's highly
customizable and extensible by people like you.
And we have a couple sessions dedicated
to this technology this year.
The first one, Introducing Podcast
Producer starts at 9 o'clock.
So in this session we're going to talk more about -- more
details about what it is and how it works behind the scene.
And immediately following that, we have
Deploying Podcast Producer where we are going
to show you how to create your own custom work flows.
And we also have a couple of guests from
higher education institutions who are going
to tell us how they plan to use this technology.
So, that's all I have today, and what I'd like to
do is invite Michael Lopp to the stage who can tell us
about even more features of Leopard Server.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> All right.
How you guys doing today?
That was a very aggressive demo.
There were a lot of moving parts there.
That was incredible.
I don't know if I can compete; but I think I've got game.
My name's Michael Lopp, I'm the manager
of Management and Collaboration.
And we're going to talk to you about management
products, give you a little status report there,
and then we're going to talk about
iCal server and wiki server.
So let's get started.
So every year whether we have new features
or not, we have these management sessions.
And they're always packed.
Even if there's no new products, they're always packed.
And the question is why is that?
And the reason is we're all managing Macs.
Now there's people here who are managing, like, the state
of Maine, bazillion portables, and then there's this person
up in the front row who's got a G5 and a MacBook.
He's managing it as well.
Unfortunately we've got a lot of different management
products that apply to all of the different scenarios.
We've got Apple Remote Desktop, which
we're going to talk about briefly.
We have the system imaging tool, NetBoot,
and then we've got workgroup manager,
which includes Manage Desktop, or
N C X. So status here really quick.
So A R D -- A R D 3.1 came out in October.
The enhancements included Bonjour
Scanner,
Lights Out management support as
well as, even smarter, Smart Lists.
A lot more options on the Smart List.
3.2, the agent which ships as part of
Leopard is an updated to support Leopard.
And it also is included at part of Leopard.
So if you have Tiger you have the two agents.
Now you've got the three agent there.
We've also spent some time working in
an adaptive codec as part of this agent.
And the target here is DSL connections.
We wanted to make it really, really good on DSL connections.
The technology, which is part of ARD;
the same thing in iChat screen sharing,
it's the same thing in the screen
sharing utility, which is in the OS.
These all interoperate.
There's no competing standards here.
It's all of the C technology.
And then we have system imaging.
System imaging -- System Image Utility has a sordid history.
So I threw it away.
And built a brand new system of image utility.
( Applause )
>> There are two users that we
see for the System Image Utility.
The beginner user, or the basic user.
The person who wants to get in and
get out, and just build an image.
So sort of a wizard work flow.
You get in, you get out.
Then we use the Automator technology
to allow you to allow you to develop work flows
to actually allow you to build more complex images.
It's just like building a work flow inside of Automator.
So we'll be talking more about this later this week.
The other thing we did inside of NetBoot
is actually give you status back
for the images you're installing inside of Admin.
So it's no longer this black box of what's going
on with NetBoot you're actually
getting status back in there as well.
( Applause )
>> Thank you.
>> All right.
More status.
Workgroup manager.
So, application launch restrictions is a feature
that's been in Manage Desktop for a long time.
But eager young minds found very easy ways to get around it.
So what I'm happy to report is part of Leopard, we
have very robust application launch restrictions.
What this is, is if you're using a managed desktop, we have
a requirement to not allow certain applications to be run.
We now block at the kernel level.
This is going to be really, really tricky.
( Applause )
>> To get around it.
It's not a test or anything -- we did a good job.
Trust me. We also have hierarchal
management as part of Manage Desktop.
If you're using Manage Desktop you can set preferences as
part of a user, as part of a group, as part of computers.
What we do now is you actually stack them
hierarchically so we can get really sophisticated
about the different management
policies that you want to construct.
So go crazy.
We also now have as part of Manage Desktop, command
line tools to actually get information out --
( Applause )
>> -- you guys love the command line tools.
Always a round of applause on that.
That's awesome.
So, yes, we've got that as well.
And you can get all the information about
what's going on in mcx. As always,
we're adding new high level plug-ins in the Manage Desktop.
We now support -- by high level I mean new
plug-ins that you see in workgroup manager.
We now support Time Machine, all the
Dashboard widgets, Front Row as well.
And over in portable home directories land, we actually
now allow you to actually do external accounts.
You can have accounts on external
storage, which is sort of interesting.
And we'll talk about that later this week.
As well as one step File Vault, and more
(Inaudible) portable home directories.
You can actually use File Vault as part of that.
Again, I'm zipping through all these features.
There are sessions later in the week on
this, but we've got a lot to talk about.
Speaking of sessions, so -- this Thursday at 9 a.m. the
ARD team is going to be here in one of these rooms.
They're actually going to be building
on ARD technology and showing you how
to actually use ARD technology for even larger deployment.
It's going to be a fascinating session.
Also, Friday at 2 o'clock we've got
Managing your Client.
So this is going to be all of work
group manager, and NetBoot as well.
So a lot of sessions going on.
I am sure they will be packed.
All right.
So that's the management update.
Let's talk about iCal server.
We talked about -- we brought this in last year.
And we've been working on it for another year.
And it's -- sweet.
I want to talk a little bit about what our goal is here.
And I want to talk about it from the Microsoft perspective.
Which -- in the Microsoft world with calendaring
you've got exchange server in the middle.
And if you want to use -- if you want to use
a client you've got Outlook for your desktop.
You've got out look for the Web.
You've got Outlook for phones.
This is terrific.
If you want to use Outlook.
( Laughter )
>> I don't want to use Outlook.
So, this is how we view it from an iCal server world.
You've got iCal server in the middle.
And if you want to use iCal, which
is what I use, you can use it.
But if you want to use Mozilla's Sunbird, or Mozilla's
Lightening Extension as part of Sunbird -- is that right?
Whatever. You can do that.
If you want to use Outlook, you can.
And I'll tell you about that in a second.
Or you can use a Web-based browser.
Or -- this isn't an Apple product, this is Marware's
project X. They're actually using it for project management.
Project management?
Calendar server?
What's going on here?
Think about what project management software needs?
It's got people.
It's got events, it's got time.
This sounds like something that
you want in a calendaring system.
What they're using is they're using iCal
server as a repository for their information.
And this is a great proof point to show what you
get when you build a server on open standards.
Think of the other applications that can be developed
when there's no longer this big black
wall around your calendaring information.
That's you get with Exchange server, not with iCal server.
We get this because we're built on CalDAV.
This is a standard that we've been working with
-- a company -- organization called CalConnect.
And I'll talk about them in a second.
What we liked about CalDAV, and we
said this last year, is that it's --
first off we wanted to see wide-spread vendor support.
But it also doesn't necessarily reinvent all of the wheel.
Just a protocol stack that it builds up CalDAV.
Now at the bottom there's HTTP.
Which we're all familiar with.
And you've got WebDAV, which has been around a while.
And you've got iCalendar, we use for our accounting file.
That's an existing standards.
On top of that still in purple we've got iTip,
which we use for notifications.
And then on top of that we've got CalDAV.
CalDAV is a basically WebDAV extensions
for all the scheduling that you need to do.
Reoccurrence, read busy reports.
Stuff like that.
All the purple's done.
It's been there.
We're using it.
We don't have anything new out, but it's doing CalDAV.
So -- so we're working really closely
with the CalConnect folks.
I'm really happy, as you'll see in
a demo here in a second, with iCal.
I really believe that iCal server and iCal is by far the
furtherest along in terms of adopting these standards.
But there's lots of room for everyone to get involved.
This is the kitchen sink slide while
I tell you that what you're getting
with iCal server is a featured
competitive solution with an exchange.
I am not going to read all these features, but I
want you to know is we're using this at Apple now.
We've got several large engineering
organizations actually on iCal server.
And that's a testimony to being
a really rich-featured product.
It also scales nicely.
It's got to if they use it at Apple.
Whether you're just using it as a single server or as you
grow and you add more servers, or you add DNS,
you add more servers, then you put Xsan you're
buying a lot of hardware, this makes us really happy.
ICal server does a really good
job of scaling and performing.
So enough of me.
What I would like to do is actually
show you iCal and iCal server.
We've got will Wilfredo Sanchez from the Calendaring team.
( Applause )
>> You hear me now?
Here we go.
Okay. So as with many server things, the best
way to show it to you is to start with a client.
So we're going to show you iCal here.
Let's get that launched up.
And as with Tiger, you can have
local calendar information here.
You can see I go to Tommy's every Monday for tequila,
watch TV, and I'm going to Bourbon and Branch later in the week.
But up in this middle area, this is all
blanked out because this is my work time.
And really what I want here is my work calendar.
And my work calendar I need a much richer
sort of interactive environment here.
So why don't I just go up and bring up iCal preferences.
And as you can see there's a new accounts tab up here.
And I'm going create an account.
Just be unimaginative and call it server calendar.
Enter my user name and my password.
And notice that there's some information
-- room here for some server information.
But I am not going to bother with that, because iCal
speaks to open directory, as it's actually going to look
up that information based on the user name I gave it.
And sure enough, when I get this out of the way you can see
that now all of a sudden I've got some information up here.
Now if I were a brand new user to
this, you would see a clean slate.
Because I've use this at work and
I've already schedule some meetings,
I'm pretty booked up for lunch this week
and I've got a team meeting on Tuesday.
Now let's set up a theoretical situation.
Let's say I just buy an expensive house in
San Francisco, you all know they're not cheap.
And I work for this guy named Michael who you just met.
And I want a big fat raise.
So I am going to set up a meeting with Michael.
I am going to select the calendar
I want to schedule it against.
Set up time for some coffee.
So it's -- edit this event.
Call this coffee.
Won't really make a mention of
the whole raise thing just yet.
Now if I were using Tiger, you know,
like, I'd call him up and say hey Michael,
you've got any time 10 o'clock tomorrow,
can you block that out on your schedule?
I've got it on mine.
But that's like, so Tiger.
( Laughter )
>> And we want to use something cooler.
So I'm going to go to the attendees field here
and I'm going start typing in Michael's name.
And you can see, again, using opportunity
directory, iCal's finding his information.
And hit return.
And let's see if he's available.
So I can see -- oh, I actually started
at 9 a.m. here's a head's up view.
The gray areas here indicate that he's not in the office.
And obviously I am not either.
If there were 12 people in the meeting,
obviously, this would be a taller stack.
He's kind of busy at 10.
9 a.m. -- I'm a slacker, I don't want to get up that early.
So let's try tomorrow.
Looks he's free then.
So let's go ahead and book that.
I'm going send him this invitation
and send him this dialogue.
So there you go; I've scheduled a meeting with Michael.
( Applause )
>> Let's go ahead and switch users here.
Let's say that I'm now -- I'm Michael.
And here's my calendar.
You see a much busier schedule than mine.
But -- let's see what's going on.
And sure enough here's a notification
for an invitation to go have some coffee.
Michael likes coffee.
He's got some free time.
He replies, and now it's on his calendar.
And viola.
That's how you schedule meetings using iCal in Leopard.
( Applause )
>> All right.
Back to the slides.
Please. Thank you.
So -- great demo by the way.
No raise.
>> Oh!
>> I am kidding.
It was a great demo.
Anyway -- so CalConnect is a standard
organization that we're a part of.
And as you can see there is a lot of names up here.
And this is called a NASCAR slide,
because there's ads everywhere.
And in the middle of this we've got Apple.
We're working really closely with all this.
And what I really want you to know is
that there's a lot of different companies
and universities are a part of CalConnect.
As we said last year, Darwin Calendar Server
is an exact duplicate of the iCal server.
And if you're interested in being a part of the open source
effort you can go to Mac OS forge and you can contribute.
When we check in code, it's showing up there.
So you're on the tip of the tree if you're on Mac OS forge.
I also teased you with the idea of Outlook and CalDAV.
There's an open source project called OpenConnector.
Which we've been -- we were aware of.
And this is actually full CalDAV
support from within Outlook.
It's a fully open source and it works along side Exchange.
Meaning if you're going exchange an account
you can also have a CalDAV account as well.
And it's also tested against Outlook.
Outlook 2002 and Office 2007.
So if you're got concerns about integrating iCal
7 in your world, there's projects like this,
and I'm assuming there's other ones as well.
Which exist because -- because
of CalDAV and open standards.
So if you want to see more, Wilfredo's going to be up here
demoing and trying to earn his raise Wednesday at 5 o'clock.
They're going to really get into technical detail, it
is going to be -- it is going to be a great session.
Segue. So you saw a wiki here a little bit earlier.
Love this icon.
Let's talk a little bit about why we need wikies.
We've got some great applications as part of Mac OS X.
We've got iChat, we've got Mail, we've got Calendaring.
So what is the common thread between
all of these applications?
The common thread is that it's
between me and it's between you.
I send you mail, you mail it back to me.
I have an iChat with you, you chat with me.
This information's great, but it's between you and I.
It's sitting on my hard drive and
it's sitting on your hard drive.
Of the common thread between all these
applications is that they're one to one.
And the information that we might be having during
the course of a day might be useful to someone else.
What we want is a one to many application.
And that's something that we think
a wiki is really, really good at.
So that's why we developed the Apple wiki.
We also developed another application called directory
which is a Cocoa application which ships as part of the OS.
It's part of the desktop and it's part of the server.
This is a great -- not only is it a great directory
viewer, this is something you can actually set up wikies,
anybody can set up wikies, you set up access controls.
And we'll take a look at that on the demo here in a second.
When I say wiki or the product formerly known as teams,
I'm actually talking about a bunch of different services.
I'm talking about a wiki, I'm talking about -- camera's
still on -- I'm talking about blog and podcast.
I'm talking about calendar, I'm talking about mailing list.
All of these services are part of the wiki server.
And they're all integrated to work together.
So when you're sitting there in a blog you're
using the same interface that you're using
as part of wiki, so it's nicely integrated.
So as part of these services, we have tags, we
have RSS, we have search, we have directory.
So there are a lot of different
ways to use this application.
The design goals are pretty simple.
We want to make it easy to manage.
Anybody should be able to set these up.
We shouldn't have to call IT to get them going.
It should be easy to contribute
and edit, and organize content.
And it should be easy to customize and
extend and integrate with the server.
So let's quickly go through the goals.
This is wikies for the work group.
We love Wikipedia.
But we're trying to target a wiki
for a smaller group of people.
That's a different design challenge.
We scale and perform great.
But again, we're trying to make
it -- a wiki for a smaller group.
And I'm picking up speed because
we're running out of the time.
Again, we want anyone to be able to create them.
So we don't have any IT costs every time Sally wants a wiki.
And also we want to integrate with existing infrastructure.
We want it to integrate with existing investment.
Easy to contribute, edit, and organize.
This is really where we innovated a lot with the wiki.
It's WYSIWYG .
Meaning that you go and edit the content, it's rich.
It's -- we don't want you to think we spent a lot
of time on the interaction design of the wiki.
And you'll see that on the demo.
We want to give you reasons to come back to wiki.
We want to give you reasons to remember
that there's great content in there.
So we sprinkle a little RSS all over the place,
the search results, the history, all of this.
In RSS whether you're using it in mail or Newswire,
it's a great way to keep track of information evolving.
Easy on the eyes.
Lot of themes.
Lot of Apple-style themes.
Tags that we'll see in a second.
And again, search and RSS.
Lots of goals.
Easy to customize, extend, and integrate.
Based on standards.
Of course.
Themes -- these are just HTML and CSS.
If you want to role around because you're a
school or a business or whatever -- go for it.
Third party authentication.
We heard you loud and clear.
You've got a lot of different authentication
schemes out there.
So the plug-in architecture to actually go and
allow you to use whatever authentication you want.
( Applause )
>> And then XMLRPC.
This is -- we'll talk about this more
at our session tomorrow at 10:30.
But this is a means to get data in
and out of -- in and out of the wiki.
So -- it's better to see it than talk about it.
So I am going bring Chris LeCroy,
the engineering manager
for the collaboration team to give
us a quick demo of the wiki
( Applause )
>> Thanks Michael.
So as Michael mentioned we've -- we've added a bunch
of new collaborative features to Leopard Server.
I'm going start off showing you directory app, which is
kind of the starting point for much of the wiki stuff.
So here's directory app.
Launch that.
And what directory app is, is it's a directory browser.
So what I'm browsing is my actual LDAP directory.
So it's kind of an address book for LDAP.
We support -- and I'm kind of operating here in -- as
an imaginary ad agency called Zero Balance Advertising.
So this is the directory for Zero Balance.
In support -- we support a few different
record types, people, of course.
We support regular users.
You can also add shared contacts,
anybody can add shared contacts.
So if you've got an organization that has lots of
outside vendors you can add those into the directory
and everybody can get to that information
easily from wherever they're at.
We support groups.
Support locations.
This is important for calendaring.
You need to have rooms for meetings, and
this hooks directly into iCal server,
we support maps so you
can see where a room is located.
And resources again.
This is more for calendaring.
So you can do things like check out a digital
camera or overhead projector for your meetings.
It;s all very searchable.
Pull up my record here.
Oops. Learn how to type.
So here I am.
It's got all my contact information in it again.
We have maps there.
You can see my very, very small office.
Actually, if I can do that there,
that's the actual size right there.
( Laughter )
>> And go over to the organization tab.
You can see who my manager is; who I report to.
These are all clickable and you can
navigate through the organization that way.
And you can also see the groups that I belong to.
Which leads me to the most important part of the demo.
I want to talk about groups.
So as Michael mentioned the directory
app is where you create wikies.
So let me show you how easy that is.
So I'm not a System Administrator.
I am just an average person at that
-- Zero Balance Advertising -- I've --
we specialize as an ad agency in pharmaceutical companies.
And so I'm going to -- and what they do is they
create a separate wiki for each of their ad campaigns.
And that's how they track all of their data.
And then the entire project.
So I've got a new drug coming on that
I need to create an ad campaign for.
So I just go in, and I do new group.
Name of the group is Dozing.
As you can guess, it's a sleeping pill.
Give it a name.
I can give it a description.
I can specify some access controls on this group.
I want everybody in the company
to be able to self add themselves,
because I don't want to have to
manage the entire group for them.
I can -- add a few members to it.
Which will be -- luckily they're
all very alphabetically in place.
So that's good.
Go over the ownership tab.
The ownership -- an owner of the
group is a person who owns that group.
Like I said, I'm not a System Administrator,
I'm just the guy who created the group.
I can also make somebody else the owner
if I want them to manage the group.
But they have the ability to change the configuration of
the group and some of the settings on the wiki itself.
But most importantly, the services panel.
So, over in the services panel I can define
which services I would like this group to have.
So you've got a mailing list, wiki Web log, a
Web calendar, and a mailing list Web archive,
which is a Web archive of the mailing
list, so that information is not lost.
It's kept forever.
And then below that I've got some access
controls I can add onto the group.
So sometimes you want wikies to be completely open,
sometimes you want them to be completely closed.
And we -- provided for that.
So I'd like this wiki to be open to anyone.
And I would like anyone with the
company -- make it only group members.
I can make it only authenticated user.
I am going make this one totally open,
so I don't have to authenticate too much.
And then I can specify who I would like to be able to write.
And I am going say only group members can write.
(Inaudible) click save.
And I've already created a wiki.
I didn't have to call the IT department.
There's a wiki.
And let me show you what that looks
like by clicking on wiki.
So there's my new wiki.
It was that simple.
So I also got as you can see here a blog.
A mailing list.
And let me quickly show you the Web calendar for the group.
We have a nice -- not sure how
we got a staff meeting already.
Anyway -- oh, from prior demo.
Got a nice Ajax-based Web calendar where
I can click and drag, create new events,
like this group is only allowing
members of the group to write.
So I have to authenticate.
Uh-oh. You know, my demo went perfectly yesterday.
Okay? Okay.
Create a new event.
Let's do a team lunch.
Click Okay.
I can pick that up.
I can drag it around.
Sorry. I can -- hmm.
Learn how to type or learn how to click.
I need the iPhone -- click delete.
Goes away in a puff of smoke.
( Applause )
>> So that's the calendar.
I want to go back to the wiki though and
show you that, show you some of the editing.
Let's say I want to create a new page.
Make it very simple.
Click the Plus button or New Page button.
And entitle this page Dozing Description.
And click Create.
So now I've got a new page.
Doesn't have any content in it yet.
Rather than make you suffer through my typing
even more, I've got some precanned texture.
Open that up.
So I'm going paste that in.
And you can see that all of the
text style has been retained.
If you look above here you see a tool bar.
I can do things like make text red, I can select
the paragraph, make it italic, for example.
You know, basically what you would
expect in a native word processor.
We've also got very easy ways for you to
do things like add attachments for images.
The wiki can take any kind of an attachment, but
you can imbed things like movies and pictures.
So let me show you what imbedding a picture looks like.
I'll click on the media up load link.
I will go select my file.
There it is already.
Got a nice picture of some blue pills.
I am going to keep that centered.
Click Insert.
Through the magic of Leopard wiki, it up loads to the server
and has got a nice image there that I can also pick up
and move around, I can change the word
router alignment on it if I want to.
And then the last thing for editing that
I want to show you is move management.
So I don't know if you can see it back there, but
I've got a phrase here called Better Bed Rules.
And I'd like to create a link to a new page.
Most wikies allow you to do things, allow you to
create pages that you're going to fill out later by --
by putting them in square brackets, for example.
We've got a more of a whizzy wik way of doing it.
So I select the text.
I click on the wrong button.
Then I go back and click on the right button.
I've got a few different ways I can link.
I can do new page, I can search for
pages, I can enter a URL directly.
I want to enter a new page.
So it happens -- oops, I'm sorry.
I'm going have to reselect my text
after clicking the wrong button.
Click Link.
New page. Already got a title in it.
I click Create.
That page I've already created, you can
see I've got a link down here to that page.
And I'll save my page.
Here's the full page.
I can click on this new link.
Takes me to a page that I can fill out later.
Looks pretty easy.
And I would say show you a little bit more about wikies.
This is a very empty wiki.
So I'm going to move over to one
that's already got some content in it.
So this drug is called Oestan.
( Laughter )
>> And you'll notice the theme change, like Michael said.
We ship with a bunch of different themes,
and you can create your own as well.
I want to show you history.
So I'm going go to a P H that's got lots of changes in it.
The OS X side effects list.
So you want to look at the history of this page.
I want to see what's changed on it.
I'm going click on the history button here.
And make this a little bit bigger for you.
And you can see that there have been changes made.
I can click on each of these to see the page as its changed.
I can make it a little bit easier.
I can compare and see what was changed on the page itself.
( Applause )
>> If I decide that I -- that a change is
not relevant or somebody completely screwed
up the page I can click on that and click Restore.
Which will cause that version of the page
to become the current version of the page.
So the point here is you really can't mess anything up.
This is all versioned in -- controlled through history.
Next thing I want to do is show you
sort of the main page of wikies.
So I'm going to go back to the homepage.
So every group has what we call a group homepage.
And it's basically a special wiki page.
You can't delete it.
It's got some area over here where you
can add basically some welcome content.
But on the right it's got what we call a dynamic side bar.
And it's got three sections in this one.
The What's Hot session at the top
which shows things that people --
( Music )
-- ( Music ) --
( Applause )
>> It looks like she's holding a statue.
( Laughter )
>> Okay. Can somebody turn the music down please?
So What's Hot are things that are people have
marked as hot is important in the company.
If you watch, I am not touching anything.
Michael is making changes to a page and dynamically
it's updating in the Web browser -- below that it's
( Applause )
>> Making changes which shows you things that
have changed recently, and then up coming events
that are on the calendar that are coming up.
We've got one more thing I want to show you
-- before they kick me off stage --
>> I want to show you tagging.
So every page can be tagged.
And the way Michael made that page hot was a
special tag called Hot but tags are very easy.
So I am going to tag this page with -- whatever I want.
So side effect of the tag has already been used.
So that shows up in the little pop up.
Needs review is one that has already shown up.
Never been tagged.
That one will be here.
That's how you can add tags.
Again, if the tag doesn't belong there you
can drag it off; get rid of it that way.
( Applause )
>> Then the important thing about tags
is it allows you to organize things.
So it's great that now I've got tags on things.
Now what do I do.
Well, I can just click on Needs Review
and I can get a list of all the pages
that have been tagged and I can do more
fine-grained searches.
And so anyway, we've been using
it internally at Apple for months.
And it's become critical to how we get things
done in the software engineering organization.
And we're looking forward to how other comapnies are
going to use it. It's very powerful -- thanks.
>> Thank you, Chris.
( Applause )
>> All right.
This (Inaudible) aside real quick.
We're going to keep you here like 30 more seconds.
Slides, please, thank you.
Just real quick.
We've got lots of different themes.
We're going to talk a lot more
about wikies tomorrow at 10:30.
There's a session, there's a huge amount
of demos, and we'll talk a lot more.
Standards -- we support Safari on Windows.
Who knew. Firefox and IE 6 and 7.
Firefox 1520, any of the Gecko browsers.
And publishing a meta Web log.
We'll go into a lot of other details on how
to get content in and out of the wikies.
RSS everywhere.
And also come to the session tomorrow morning at 10:30.
We're going to be up here talking a lot about wikies,
we're going to give you guys a little bit more ideas
about what you can build with this stuff.
We're going to give you demos, demos, demos.
And with that I'd like to bring Greg Burns
back up, who might give me a raise sometime.
>> All right, thanks everyone.
So I've got one important thing
to mention here before we wrap up.
So -- but first of all we're going
to be shipping Leopard Server.
It's schedule to ship this fall in October.
And the important thing is that we have a Server
feedback forum which on your calendar was scheduled
for Friday, but we do want your feedback.
So we have moved it to Tuesday
So it's --
( Applause )
>> It's tomorrow at 5 p.m. so don't believe the calendar.
Just check the displays outside tomorrow.
I think it's going to be in the Marina Room.
But again, just check the displays.
Also, we have the IT lab going on all week long.
We have special sessions for all the services you have seen
here, as well as Apple Remote Desktop and system imaging.
So we hope to see you there.
And if you have any feedback you can contact our
Server evangelist, at macosxserver.apple.com.
Thank you.